# tolkiencal
TOLKIENCAL is my personal tribute to my favourite writer: J.R.R. Tolkien.<br/>
The calendar used by the Hobbits of the Shire divided the year into twelve
months which, unlike the irregular months of Roman and modern Europe, were
of equal length: every month in the Hobbit year had exactly thirty days.
This totals only 360 days, so the left-over five or six additional days in
each year were invested in a pair of festivals, one at each solstice. The
two days of Yule fell around the Winter solstice, between December and
January; the first day of Yule was the last day of one year, and the
second day of Yule was the new-year's day of the next. Six months later
the festival of Lithe ornamented the Summer solstice, and lasted either
three or four days: the first day of Lithe began the festival, followed by
Midyear's Day itself, followed in leap years by an "Overlithe", and then
the festival ended on the second day of Lithe. 
In European calendars a given date, like January the first, falls on a
different day of the week every year: sometimes it is a Monday, sometimes
a Tuesday, sometimes another day. The Hobbits prevented this disorder by
considering neither Midyear's Day nor, in leap years, the Overlithe, to be
a day of the week. The first twenty-six weeks of the year ran
continuously, starting on the second day of Yule and ending with the first
day of Lithe. Then came Midyear's Day, and the Overlithe in leap-years,
making a sort of long weekend; we would think of them as one or two extra
days falling between a Saturday of one week and the Sunday of the next.
Then the next Shire week began with the second of Lithe, beginning the
twenty-six final weeks of the year which ended on the second day of Yule.
Because of this Hobbit innovation that kept the weeks in the same place
every year, which they called the Shire-reform, the calendar is always
correct, unlike European calendars which have to be printed differently
every year.

Syntax: 	TOLKIENCAL(date,format)
     
    Input:
          DATE (default=Today). 
          FORMAT (default='dd/mm/yyyy')
    Outputs:
          The corresponding date in the Shire Calendar.

     Example: 
     Calling on Matlab the function: tolkiencal('04/06/2007')

     the answer is:
     Hevensday 15 Forelithe 2007


          Created by Giuseppe Cardillo
          giuseppe.cardillo-edta@poste.it

To cite this file, this would be an appropriate format:
Cardillo G. (2007) Tolkiencal: convert a date into the Shire calendar.
http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/18044
